OSDOCS-16988-5-CQA3: CQA PR 5.1 for INSTALL-1: Core Installation Conc (#113738)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-special-config-storage-procedure.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/install_config/installing-customizing.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-special-config-storage-procedure_{context}"]
= Configuring disk encryption and mirroring

[role="_abstract"]

> You can enable and configure encryption and mirroring during an {product-title} installation.

Reviewer: I know this was existing text, and might require QE, but this is a bit confusing. It seems to suggest the user can perform the enabling and configuring as the installation is proceeding.  This seems more accurate (??).

```suggestion
You can enable and configure encryption and mirroring before an {product-title} installation.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

----
variant: openshift
version: {product-version}.0
metadata:
  name: worker-storage
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
boot_device:
  layout: x86_64
  luks:
    tpm2: true
    tang:
      - url: http://tang1.example.com:7500
        thumbprint: PLjNyRdGw03zlRoGjQYMahSZGu9
      - url: http://tang2.example.com:7500
        thumbprint: VCJsvZFjBSIHSldw78rOrq7h2ZF
        advertisement: "{"payload": "eyJrZXlzIjogW3siYWxnIjogIkV", "protected": "eyJhbGciOiJFUzUxMiIsImN0eSI", "signature": "ADLgk7fZdE3Yt4FyYsm0pHiau7Q"}"
    threshold: 1
  mirror:
    devices:
      - /dev/sda
      - /dev/sdb
openshift:
  fips: true
----
+
where:
+
`metadata.name`:: For control plane configurations, replace `worker` with `master` in both of these locations.
`boot_device.layout`:: Specifies the instruction set architecture of the cluster nodes.
Some examples include, `x86_64`, `aarch64`, or `ppc64le`.
`boot_device.luks`:: Specifies encrypting the root file system. For more details, see "About disk encryption".
`boot_device.luks.tpm2`:: Specify the parameter if you want to use a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) to encrypt the root file system.

> `boot_device.luks.tang`:: Specify the parameter if you want to use one or more Tang servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`boot_device.luks.tpm2`:: When `true`, specifies that you want to use a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) to encrypt the root file system.
`boot_device.luks.tang`:: Specifies that you want to use the listed Tang servers.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

`boot_device.luks.tang.url`:: Specifies the URL of a Tang server. In this example, `tangd.socket` is listening on port `7500` on the Tang server.
`boot_device.luks.tang.thumbprint`:: Specifies the exchange key thumbprint, which was generated in a preceding step.
`boot_device.luks.tang.advertisement`:: Optional parameter. Specifies the advertisement for your offline Tang server in valid JSON format.

> `boot_device.luks.threshold`:: Specifies the minimum number of TPM v2 and Tang encryption conditions that must be met for decryption to occur.

Reviewer: Do we want to copy these to the [other Butane config example](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/113738/changes#diff-a66f634a9aaca438b96814078a6d95ae50d690bf749a9afaba09ad0fa4a62ea1R50)?

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

By changing the root directory to `/host`, you can run binaries contained in the executable paths on the node:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# chroot /host
----
+
[NOTE]
====
{product-title} cluster nodes running {op-system-first} are immutable and rely on Operators to apply cluster changes.
Accessing cluster nodes using SSH is not recommended.

However, if the {product-title} API is not available, or `kubelet` is not properly functioning on the target node, `oc` operations will be impacted.

In such situations, it is possible to access nodes using `ssh core@<node>.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>` instead.
====

. If you configured boot disk encryption, verify if it is enabled:
+
.. From the debug shell, review the status of the root mapping on the node:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# cryptsetup status root
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
/dev/mapper/root is active and is in use.
  type:    LUKS2
  cipher:  aes-xts-plain64
  keysize: 512 bits
  key location: keyring
  device:  /dev/sda4
  sector size:  512
  offset:  32768 sectors
  size:    15683456 sectors
  mode:    read/write
----
+
where:
+
`type`:: Specifies the encryption format.

> When the TPM v2 or Tang encryption modes are enabled, the {op-system} boot disks are encrypted using the LUKS2 format.

Reviewer: Is this more accurate (or accurate at all)?
```suggestion
When the TPM v2 or Tang encryption mode is enabled, the {op-system} boot disks are encrypted using the LUKS2 format.
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
